federalist 34 the same subject continued
concerning the general power of taxation
from the new york packet
friday january 4 1788 hamilton
to the people of the state of new york
i flatter myself it has been clearly
shown in my last number that the
particular states under the proposed
constitution would have co-equal
authority with the union in the article
of revenue except as to duties on
imports
as this leaves open to the states far
the greatest part of the resources of
the community
there can be no color for the assertion
that they would not possess means as
abundant as could be desired for the
supply of their own wants
independent of all external control that
the field is sufficiently wide will more
fully appear when we come to advert to
the inconsiderable share of the public
expenses for which it will fall to the
lot of the state governments to provide
to argue upon abstract principles that
this coordinate authority cannot exist
is to set up supposition and theory
against fact and reality
however proper such reasonings might be
to show that a thing ought not to exist
they are wholly to be rejected when they
are made use of to prove that it does
not exist contrary to the evidence of
the fact itself
it is well known that in the roman
republic the legislative authority in
the last resort presided for ages in two
different political bodies not as
branches of the same legislature but as
distinct and independent legislatures in
each of which an opposite
interest prevailed in one the patrician
in the other the plebeian
many arguments might have been induced
to prove the unfitness of two such
seemingly contradictory authorities
each having power to a null or repeal
the acts of the other but a man would
have been regarded
as frantic who should have attempted at
rome to disprove their existence
it will be readily understood that i
allude to the committee
centuriata and the committee tributa
the former in which the people voted by
centuries was so arranged as to give a
superiority to the patrician interest
in the latter in which numbers prevailed
the plebeian interest had an entire
predominancy
and yet these two legislatures coexisted
for ages
and the roman republic attained to the
utmost height of human greatness
in the case particularly under
consideration there is no such
contradiction as appears in the example
cited
there is no power on either side to
annul the acts of the other
and in practice there is little reason
to apprehend any inconvenience
because in a short course of time the
wants of the states will naturally
reduce themselves within a very narrow
compass
and in the interim the united states
will in all probability
find it convenient to abstain wholly
from those objects to which the
particular states would be inclined to
resort
to form a more precise judgment of the
true merits of this question
it will be well to advert to the
proportion between the objects that will
require a federal provision in respect
to revenue
and those which will require a state
provision we shall discover that the
former are altogether unlimited
and that the latter are circumscribed
within very moderate bounds
in pursuing this inquiry we must bear in
mind that we are not to confine our view
to the present period
but to look forward to remote futurity
constitutions of civil government are
not to be framed upon a calculation of
existing exigencies
but upon a combination of these with the
probable exigencies of ages according to
the natural and tried course of human
affairs
nothing therefore can be more fallacious
than to infer the extent of any power
proper to be lodged in the national
government from an estimate of its
immediate necessities
there ought to be a capacity to provide
for future contingencies as they may
happen
and as these are illimitable in their
nature it is impossible safely to limit
that capacity
it is true perhaps that a computation
might be made with sufficient accuracy
to answer the purpose of the quantity of
revenue requisite to discharge the
subsisting engagements of the union
and to maintain those establishments
which for some time to come would
suffice in time of peace
but would it be wise or would it not
rather be the extreme of folly
to stop at this point and to leave the
government entrusted with the care of
the national defense in a state of
absolute incapacity to provide for the
protection of the community against
future invasions of the public peace
by foreign war or domestic convulsions
if
on the contrary we ought to exceed this
point where can we stop short of an
indefinite power
providing for emergencies as they may
arise though it is easy to assert in
general terms the possibility of forming
a rational judgment of a do provision
against probable dangers
yet we may safely challenge those who
make the assertion to bring forward
their data and may affirm that they
would be found as vague and uncertain as
any that could be produced to establish
the probable duration of the world
observations confined to the mere
prospects of internal attacks can
deserve no weight
though even these will admit of no
satisfactory calculation
but if we mean to be a commercial people
it must form a part of our policy to be
able one day to defend that commerce
the support of a navy and of naval wars
would involve contingencies that must
baffle all the efforts of political
arithmetic
admitting that we ought to try the novel
and absurd experiment in politics of
tying up the hands of government from
offense of war founded upon reasons of
state yet certainly we ought not to
disable it from guarding the community
against the ambition or enmity of other
nations
a cloud has been for some time hanging
over the european world
if it should break forth into a storm
who can ensure us that in its progress
a part of its fury would not be spent
upon us no reasonable man would hastily
pronounce that we are entirely out of
its reach
or if the combustible materials that now
seem to be collecting should be
dissipated without coming to maturity
or if a flame should be kindled without
extending to us what security can we
have that our tranquility will long
remain undisturbed from some other cause
or from some other quarter
let us recollect that peace or war will
not always be left to our option
that however moderate or unambitious we
may be we cannot count upon the
moderation or hope to extinguish the
ambition of others
who could have imagined at the
conclusion of the last war that france
and britain
wearied and exhausted as they both were
would so soon have looked with so
hostile an aspect upon each other
to judge from the history of mankind we
shall be compelled to conclude that the
fiery and destructive passion of war
reign in the human breast with much more
powerful sway than the mild and
beneficent sentiments of peace
and that to model our political systems
upon speculations of lasting tranquility
is to calculate on the weaker springs of
the human character
what are the chief sources of expense in
every government
what is occasion that enormous
accumulation of debts with which several
of the european nations are oppressed
the answer plainly is wars and
rebellions the support of those
institutions which are necessary to
guard the body politic against these
two most mortal diseases of society the
expenses arising from these institutions
which are relative to the mere domestic
police of a state
to the support of its legislative
executive and judicial departments with
their different appendages
and to the encouragement of agriculture
and manufactures
which will comprehend almost all the
objects of state expenditure
are insignificant in comparison with
those which relate to the national
defense
in the kingdom of great britain where
all ostentatious apparatus of monarchy
is to be provided for
not above a 15th part of the annual
income of the nation
is appropriated to the class of expenses
last mentioned
the other 14 15ths are absorbed in the
payment of the interest of debts
contracted for carrying on wars in which
that country has been engaged
and in the maintenance of fleets and
armies if on the one hand it should be
observed that the expenses incurred in
the prosecution of the ambitious
enterprises and vainglorious pursuits of
a monarchy are not a proper standard by
which to judge of those which might be
necessary in a republic
it ought on the other hand to be
remarked that there should be as great a
disproportion between the profusion
and extravagance of a wealthy kingdom in
its domestic administration and the
frugality and economy which
in that particular become the modest
simplicity of republican government
if we balance a proper deduction from
one side against that which it is
supposed ought to be made from the other
the proportion may still be considered
as holding good
but let us advert to the large debt
which we have ourselves contracted in a
single war
and let us only calculate on a common
share of the events which disturb the
peace of nations
and we shall instantly perceive without
the aid of any elaborate illustration
that there must always be an immense
disproportion between the objects of
federal and state expenditures
it is true that several of the states
separately are encumbered with
considerable debts which are an
excrescence of the late war
but this cannot happen again if the
proposed system be adopted
and when these debts are discharged the
only call for revenue of any consequence
which the state governments will
continue to experience
will be for the mere support of their
respective civil list to which
if we add all contingencies the total
amount in every state ought to fall
considerably short of two hundred
thousand pounds
in framing a government for posterity as
well as ourselves we ought in those
provisions which are designed to be
permanent to calculate not on temporary
but on permanent causes of expense
if this principle be a just one our
attention would be directed to a
provision in favor of the state
governments for an annual sum of about
two hundred thousand pounds
while the exigencies of the union could
be susceptible of no limits
even in imagination in this view of the
subject by what logic can it be
maintained that the local governments
ought to command in perpetuity an
exclusive source of revenue for any sum
beyond the extent of two hundred
thousand pounds
to extend its power further in exclusion
of the authority of the union
would be to take the resources of the
community out of those hands which stood
in need of them for the public welfare
in order to put them into the hands
which could have no
just or proper occasion for them suppose
then the convention had been inclined to
proceed upon the principle of a
repartition of the objects of revenue
between the union and its members in
proportion to their comparative
necessities
what particular fund could have been
selected for the use of the states
that would not either have been too much
or too little too little for their
present
too much for their future wants as to
the line of separation between external
and internal taxes this would leave to
the states
at a rough computation the command of
two-thirds of the resources of the
community to defray from a tenth to a
twentieth part of its expenses
and to the union one-third of the
resources of the community to defray
nine-tenths to nineteen-twentieths of
its expenses
if we desert this boundary and content
ourselves with leaving to the states an
exclusive power of taxing houses and
lands
there would still be a great
disproportion between the means
and the end the possession of one-third
of the resources of the community to
supply at most one-tenth of its wants if
any fund could have been selected and
appropriated
equal to and not greater than the object
it would have been inadequate
to the discharge of the existing debts
of the particular states
and would have left them dependent on
the union for a provision for this
purpose
the preceding train of observation will
justify the position which has been
elsewhere laid down that
a concurrent jurisdiction in the article
of taxation was the only admissible
substitute for an entire subordination
in respect to this branch of power of
state authority to that of the union
any separation of the objects of revenue
that could have been fallen upon
would have amounted to a sacrifice of
the great interests of the union to the
power of the individual states
the convention thought the concurrent
jurisdiction preferable to that
subordination
and it is evident that it has at least
the merit of reconciling an indefinite
constitutional power of taxation in the
federal government with an adequate and
independent power in the states to
provide for their own necessities
there remain a few other lights in which
this important subject of taxation will
claim a further consideration
publius